.TH SCP 1 "September 25, 1999" ""
.SH NAME
\fBscp\fP
\- secure copy (remote file copy program)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBscp\fP
[\fB\-1246BCpqrv\fP]
[\fB\-c\fP \fIcipher\fP]
[\fB\-F\fP \fIssh_config\fP]
[\fB\-i\fP \fIidentity_file\fP]
[\fB\-l\fP \fIlimit\fP]
[\fB\-o\fP \fIssh_option\fP]
[\fB\-P\fP \fIport\fP]
[\fB\-S\fP \fIprogram\fP]
[[\fIuser\fP@]\fIhost1\fP:]\fIfile1\fP
[\fI...\fP]
[[\fIuser\fP@]\fIhost2\fP:]\fIfile2\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBscp\fP
copies files between hosts on a network.
It uses
\fBssh\fP(1)
for data transfer, and uses the same authentication and provides the
same security as
\fBssh\fP(1).
Unlike
\fBrcp\fP(1),
\fBscp\fP
will ask for passwords or passphrases if they are needed for
authentication.

Any file name may contain a host and user specification to indicate
that the file is to be copied to/from that host.
Copies between two remote hosts are permitted.

The options are as follows:
.TP
\fB\-1\fP
Forces
\fBscp\fP
to use protocol 1.
.TP
\fB\-2\fP
Forces
\fBscp\fP
to use protocol 2.
.TP
\fB\-4\fP
Forces
\fBscp\fP
to use IPv4 addresses only.
.TP
\fB\-6\fP
Forces
\fBscp\fP
to use IPv6 addresses only.
.TP
\fB\-B\fP
Selects batch mode (prevents asking for passwords or passphrases).
.TP
\fB\-C\fP
Compression enable.
Passes the
\fB\-C\fP
flag to
\fBssh\fP(1)
to enable compression.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIcipher\fP
Selects the cipher to use for encrypting the data transfer.
This option is directly passed to
\fBssh\fP(1).
.TP
\fB\-F\fP \fIssh_config\fP
Specifies an alternative
per-user configuration file for
\fBssh\fP.
This option is directly passed to
\fBssh\fP(1).
.TP
\fB\-i\fP \fIidentity_file\fP
Selects the file from which the identity (private key) for RSA
authentication is read.
This option is directly passed to
\fBssh\fP(1).
.TP
\fB\-l\fP \fIlimit\fP
Limits the used bandwidth, specified in Kbit/s.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIssh_option\fP
Can be used to pass options to
\fBssh\fP
in the format used in
\fBssh_config\fP(5).
This is useful for specifying options
for which there is no separate
\fBscp\fP
command-line flag.
For full details of the options listed below, and their possible values, see
\fBssh_config\fP(5).

.TP
AddressFamily
.TP
BatchMode
.TP
BindAddress
.TP
ChallengeResponseAuthentication
.TP
CheckHostIP
.TP
Cipher
.TP
Ciphers
.TP
Compression
.TP
CompressionLevel
.TP
ConnectionAttempts
.TP
ConnectTimeout
.TP
ControlMaster
.TP
ControlPath
.TP
GlobalKnownHostsFile
.TP
GSSAPIAuthentication
.TP
GSSAPIDelegateCredentials
.TP
HashKnownHosts
.TP
Host
.TP
HostbasedAuthentication
.TP
HostKeyAlgorithms
.TP
HostKeyAlias
.TP
HostName
.TP
IdentityFile
.TP
IdentitiesOnly
.TP
KbdInteractiveDevices
.TP
LogLevel
.TP
MACs
.TP
NoHostAuthenticationForLocalhost
.TP
NumberOfPasswordPrompts
.TP
PasswordAuthentication
.TP
Port
.TP
PreferredAuthentications
.TP
Protocol
.TP
ProxyCommand
.TP
PubkeyAuthentication
.TP
RekeyLimit
.TP
RhostsRSAAuthentication
.TP
RSAAuthentication
.TP
SendEnv
.TP
ServerAliveInterval
.TP
ServerAliveCountMax
.TP
SmartcardDevice
.TP
StrictHostKeyChecking
.TP
TCPKeepAlive
.TP
UsePrivilegedPort
.TP
User
.TP
UserKnownHostsFile
.TP
VerifyHostKeyDNS
.TP
\fB\-P\fP \fIport\fP
Specifies the port to connect to on the remote host.
Note that this option is written with a capital
`P',
because
\fB\-p\fP
is already reserved for preserving the times and modes of the file in
\fBrcp\fP(1).
.TP
\fB\-p\fP
Preserves modification times, access times, and modes from the
original file.
.TP
\fB\-q\fP
Disables the progress meter.
.TP
\fB\-r\fP
Recursively copy entire directories.
.TP
\fB\-S\fP \fIprogram\fP
Name of
\fIprogram\fP
to use for the encrypted connection.
The program must understand
\fBssh\fP(1)
options.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Verbose mode.
Causes
\fBscp\fP
and
\fBssh\fP(1)
to print debugging messages about their progress.
This is helpful in
debugging connection, authentication, and configuration problems.

Ex -std scp
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrcp\fP(1),
\fBsftp\fP(1),
\fBssh\fP(1),
\fBssh-add\fP(1),
\fBssh-agent\fP(1),
\fBssh-keygen\fP(1),
\fBssh_config\fP(5),
\fBsshd\fP(8)
.SH HISTORY
\fBscp\fP
is based on the
\fBrcp\fP(1)
program in BSD source code from the Regents of the University of
California.
.SH AUTHORS

Timo Rinne <tri@iki.fi>

Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>
