FRYSK

Jo wurde freonlik fersocht om dit bestân (README) mei te fersprieden 
by elke kopy/ôflate ferzje fan dizze Fryske wurdlist 
(fy-NL.dic/fy-NL.aff). It brûken en fersprieden fan dizze bestannen 
mei allinnich ûnder de betingsten fan de yn dit bestân neamde 
lisinsje.

De wurdlist foar de staveringshifker is basearre op de 
Foarkarswurdlist foar it Frysk, dy't offisjeel fêststeld is troch de 
Provinsje Fryslân. Foar mear ynformaasje: 
http://www.fryslan.frl/14718/feroardering-oangeande-de-offisjele-stavering-fan-de-fryske-taal-2014/

Ferzje: 20160722


ENGLISH

Please include this file (README) with every copy/derived work of 
this Frisian word list (fy-NL.dic/fy-NL.aff). Use and distribution of 
these files fall under terms and conditions of the license mentioned 
in this file.

The word list for the spell checker is based on the Foarkarswurdlist 
for Frisian, which was officially ratified by the Provincie Fryslân. 
For more information: 
http://www.fryslan.frl/14718/feroardering-oangeande-de-offisjele-stavering-fan-de-fryske-taal-2014/

Version: 20160722


LICENSE

Copyright © 2016 Fryske Akademy  <https://www.fryske-akademy.nl/>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
