<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
  %brandDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Using Privacy Features</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="helpFileLayout.css"
  type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<h1 id="using_the_cookie_manager">Using the Cookie Manager</h1>

<p>A cookie is a small amount of information on your computer that is used by
  some sites. For a brief overview, see
  <a href="privacy_help.xhtml#what_are_cookies_and_how_do_they_work">What Are
  Cookies and How Do They Work?</a></p>

<p>Before loading a web page that uses cookies, your browser handles the
  page&apos;s cookies by doing two things:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Accepts or rejects any requests by the site to <strong>set</strong>
    (store) one or more cookies on your computer.</li>
  <li>Accepts or rejects any requests by the site to <strong>read</strong>
    cookies it previously stored on your computer. A site can&apos;t
    actually read cookies or any other data on your computer&mdash;instead,
    your browser gets the cookies and sends them back to the site.</li>
</ul>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#enabling_and_disabling_cookies">Enabling &amp; Disabling
      Cookies</a></li>
    <li><a href="#managing_cookies_site-by-site">Managing Cookies
      Site-By-Site</a></li>
    <li><a href="#viewing_cookies">Viewing Cookies</a></li>
    <li><a href="#removing_cookies">Removing Cookies</a></li>
    <li><a href="#cookie_manager_settings">Cookie Manager Settings</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="enabling_and_disabling_cookies">Enabling &amp; Disabling Cookies</h2>

<p>You can specify how cookies should be handled by setting your Cookies
  preferences. The default setting is <q>Allow all cookies</q>.</p>

<p>To change your Cookies preferences:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Cookies. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>Set your Cookies preferences.</li>
</ol>

<p>For more information about the effect of each setting, see
  <a href="#cookies">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Cookies</a>.</p>

<p>[<a href="#using_the_cookie_manager">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="managing_cookies_site-by-site">Managing Cookies Site-By-Site</h2>

<p>To set cookie permissions for the current site:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the Tools menu and choose Cookie Manager.</li>
  <li>Choose one of the following items:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Block Cookies from this Site</strong>: Block the
          current site from setting cookies.</li>
      <li><strong>Use Default Cookie Permissions</strong>: Reset
          cookie permission for the current site and use the
          <a href="#cookie_manager_settings">default settings</a>.</li>
      <li><strong>Allow Session Cookies from this Site</strong>: Allow
          the current site to set session cookies. Persistent cookies from
          this site will be downgraded to session cookies.</li>
      <li><strong>Allow Cookies from this Site</strong>: Allow the
          current site to set cookies.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ol>

<p>To <a href="#add_cookie_sites">set cookie permission</a> for several sites
  or a site you are not viewing, use the Cookie Manager.</p>

<p>If you have selected <q>Ask for each cookie</q> in
  <a href="#cookie_manager_settings">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences -
  Cookies</a>, you will be warned (while browsing) that a web site is asking to
  set a cookie. When you see such a warning, you can choose to
  Allow, Allow for Session, or Deny the cookie.</p>

<p>Other dialog options:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Use my choice for all cookies from this site</strong>:
    If you check this option, you will not be warned the next time
    that site tries to set or modify a cookie, and your <q>allow</q> or
    <q>deny</q> response will still be in effect.</li>
  <li><strong>Show Details</strong>/<strong>Hide Details</strong>:
    Click the button to show or hide <a href="#viewing_cookies">detailed
    information</a> of the cookie.</li>
</ul>

<p>If you want to change a remembered response later, use the Cookie Manager
  to edit <a href="#stored_cookies">stored cookies</a> and
  <a href="#cookie_sites">add or remove cookie sites</a>.</p>

<p>To stop automatically accepting or rejecting cookies from a site:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the Tools menu and choose Cookie Manager.</li>
  <li>Choose Manage Stored Cookies from the submenu. The Cookie Manager window
    opens with a list of all the cookies stored on your computer.</li>
  <li>Click the Cookie Sites tab. The sites for which you have allowed or
    denied cookies are listed.</li>
  <li>Click to select the site from which you no longer want to automatically
    accept cookies, and then click Remove Cookie.</li>
</ol>

<p>[<a href="#using_the_cookie_manager">Return to beginning of section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="viewing_cookies">Viewing Cookies</h2>

<p>To view detailed information about cookies:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the Tools menu and choose Cookie Manager.</li>
  <li>Choose Manage Stored Cookies from the submenu. The Cookie Manager window
    opens with a list of all the cookies stored on your computer.</li>
  <li>Select a cookie to see its details.</li>
</ol>

<p>For more information about the information displayed, see
  <a href="#stored_cookies">Stored Cookies</a>.</p>

<p>[<a href="#using_the_cookie_manager">Return to beginning of section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="removing_cookies">Removing Cookies</h2>

<p><strong>Important</strong>: To remove cookies, follow the steps in this
  section. Do not try to edit the cookies file on your computer.</p>

<p>To remove one or more cookies from your computer:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the Tools menu and choose Cookie Manager.</li>
  <li>Choose Manage Stored Cookies from the submenu. The Cookie Manager window
    opens with a list of all the cookies stored on your computer.</li>
  <li>Select one or more cookies and click Remove Cookie, or click Remove All
    Cookies.</li>
</ol>

<p>Even though you&apos;ve removed the cookies now, you will reacquire those
  same cookies the next time you return to the site.</p>

<p>To prevent that from happening, select the checkbox labeled <q>Don&apos;t
  allow sites that set removed cookies to set future cookies</q>. When this
  checkbox is selected, sites for the cookies that you are removing are
  added to the list of sites whose cookies will automatically be rejected.</p>

<p>You must click OK for your changes to take effect.</p>

<p>[<a href="#using_the_cookie_manager">Return to beginning of section</a>]</p>

<h1 id="cookie_manager_settings">Cookie Manager Settings</h1>

<p>This section describes how to set your Cookies preferences and control other
  aspects of cookie handling.</p>

<p>For step-by-step descriptions of various tasks related to cookies, see
  <a href="#using_the_cookie_manager">Using the Cookie Manager</a>.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#cookies">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences -
      Cookies</a></li>
    <li><a href="#stored_cookies">Stored Cookies</a></li>
    <li><a href="#cookie_sites">Cookie Sites</a></li>
    <li><a href="#cookie_notification">Cookie Notification</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="cookies">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Cookies</h2>

<p>Your browser is set by default to accept all cookies. This section describes
  how to use the Cookies preferences panel to change that setting. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Cookies. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>Cookies help sites keep track of information for you, such as the
  contents of your on-line shopping cart or which cities&apos; weather you want
  to know about. For a brief overview, see
  <a href="privacy_help.xhtml#what_are_cookies_and_how_do_they_work">What Are
  Cookies and How Do They Work?</a></p>

<p>You can select one of these options:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Block cookies</strong>: Select this option to refuse all
    cookies.</li>
  <li><strong>Allow cookies for the originating website only</strong>: Select
    this option if you don&apos;t want to accept or return
    <a href="privacy_help.xhtml#what_are_third-party_cookies">foreign
    cookies</a>.</li>
  <li><strong>Allow all cookies</strong>: This is the default option. Select
    this option to permit all sites not explicitly blocked to set cookies on
    your computer.</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: Blocking cookies does not remove old cookies. By
  blocking cookies you only block sites from setting new cookies, and old
  cookies will still be sent to sites. To completely block a site from receiving
  old cookies, you need to <a href="#removing_cookies">remove its cookies</a>.
</p>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: <a href="#cookie_sites">Per-site cookie permission</a>
  supersedes default cookie setting. For example, if you allow a site to set
  cookies, the site can set cookies even if you choose <q>Block cookies</q>.
</p>

<p>If you allow cookies or do not change the default setting, you can also
  select the following preferences:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Accept cookies normally</strong>: Select this
    if you want sites to set or modify cookies without restrictions.</li>
  <li><strong>Accept for current session only</strong>: Select this to delete
    the cookie the next time you exit your browser.</li>
  <li><strong>Accept cookies for [__] days</strong>: Select this if you
    want to limit the length of time any cookie can remain on your computer,
    then type the number of days.</li>
  <li><strong>Ask for each cookie</strong>: Select this if you want
    Cookie Manager to warn you each time a site is about to store a cookie.
    In addition, you can choose <strong>except for session cookies</strong>: so
    that &brandShortName; will not warn you if the site is setting cookies
    which will be deleted when you exit your browser.</li>
</ul>

<p>You can also get more information about your stored cookies:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Cookie Manager</strong>: Click this button to view
    information about the cookies currently stored on your computer and which
    sites are allowed to set them.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="stored_cookies">Stored Cookies</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Stored Cookies tab of the Cookie
  Manager. If you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the Tools menu and choose Cookie Manager.</li>
  <li>Choose Manage Stored Cookies from the submenu. The Cookie Manager window
    opens with a list of all the cookies stored on your computer.</li>
</ol>

<p>The Stored Cookies tab lists all the cookies stored on your computer, the
  sites they belong to, and their current status.</p>

<p>When you select a cookie in this list, the following information about that
  cookie appears in the bottom portion of the tab:</p>

<table class="defaultTable">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Item</th>
      <th>Explanation</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody class="tbody-default">
    <tr>
      <td>Name</td>
      <td>The name assigned to the cookie by its originator.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Information</td>
      <td>A string of characters containing the information a site tracks
        for you. It might contain a user key or name by which you are
        identified to the site, information about your interests, and so
        forth.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Host or domain</td>
      <td>Provides the name of the cookie&apos;s host or domain.

        <p>A <strong>host</strong> cookie is sent back, during subsequent
          visits, only to the <a href="glossary.xhtml#server">server</a> that
          set it.</p>

        <p>A <strong>domain</strong> cookie is sent back to any site
          that&apos;s in the same domain as the site that set it. A site&apos;s
          domain is the part of its URL that contains the name of an
          organization, business, or school&mdash;such as netscape.com or
          washington.org.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Path</td>
      <td>The file pathway. This is provided only if the cookie should be sent
        back to all URLs that are on that path or lower. For example,
        <tt>http://a.b/x/y/z.html</tt> means that the cookie can also be set
        for path <tt>x/</tt>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Send For</td>
      <td>When this field is <q>For encrypted connections only</q> it means
        that the browser checks the connection whenever the server asks for a
        cookie and will not send it unless the connection is encrypted
        (HTTPS).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Expires</td>
      <td>The date and time at which the cookie will be deactivated. The
        browser regularly removes expired cookies from your computer.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<p>To remove cookies, click one of these buttons:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Remove Cookie</strong>: Removes the selected cookie or cookies
    from the list.</li>
  <li><strong>Remove All Cookies</strong>: Removes all cookies from the
    list.</li>
</ul>

<p>Select this checkbox to prevent the cookies you remove from being added back
  into the list later:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Don&apos;t allow sites that set removed cookies to set future
    cookies</strong></li>
</ul>

<p>Even if you remove cookies now, you will reacquire those same cookies the
  next time you return to the site. To prevent that from happening, select
  this checkbox. When this checkbox is selected, sites for the cookies that
  you are removing are added to the list of sites whose cookies will
  automatically be rejected.</p>

<p>You must click Close for your changes to take effect.</p>

<h2 id="cookie_sites">Cookie Sites</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Cookie Sites tab of the Cookie
  Manager. If you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the Tools menu and choose Cookie Manager.</li>
  <li>Choose Manage Stored Cookies from the submenu. The Cookie Manager window
    opens with a list of all the cookies stored on your computer.</li>
  <li>Click the Cookie Sites tab.</li>
</ol>

<p>The Cookie Sites tab of the Cookie Manager lists the sites for which your
  decisions have been remembered, and what your decisions were. It also allows
  you to add and remove sites from the list.</p>

<h3 id="add_cookie_sites">Adding Cookie Sites</h3>

<p>To add cookies sites manually:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Enter the site address, e.g. <tt>www.mozilla.org</tt></li>
  <li>Set the site cookie permission:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Block</strong>: Click this button to add the site as a site
        blocked from setting cookies.</li>
      <li><strong>Session</strong>: Click this button to add the site as a site
        that can set session cookies. Persistent cookies from this site will
        be downgraded to session cookies.</li>
      <li><strong>Allow</strong>: Click this button to add the site as a
        site that can set cookies.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Repeat the steps to add additional sites.</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="remove_cookie_sites">Removing Cookie Sites</h3>

<p>To remove a cookie site:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Remove Site</strong>: Removes the selected site or sites from the
    list.</li>
  <li><strong>Remove All Sites</strong>: Removes all sites from the list.</li>
</ul>

<p>Once you&apos;ve removed a site from this list, Cookie Manager remembers
  nothing about it. If the <q>Ask for each cookie</q> option is selected in
  the Cookies preferences panel, you will be warned when any site not in this
  list requests permission to set a cookie.</p>

<h1 id="using_the_password_manager">Using the Password Manager</h1>

<p>Many sites require you to type a user name and password before you can
  enter the site. For instance, personalized pages and sites containing your
  financial information usually require you to log in.</p>

<p>The user name and password you use at a particular site can be read by the
  site&apos;s administrator. Potentially, that person could then attempt to log
  into other sites where you may have used the same user name and password. If
  this concerns you, you may wish to use a different password at every site
  with which you register.</p>

<p>Password Manager can help you remember some or all of your names and
  passwords by storing them on your computer&apos;s hard disk, and entering
  them for you automatically when you visit such sites.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href=
      "#using_password_manager_to_remember_user_names_and_passwords">Using
      Password Manager to Remember User Names and Passwords</a></li>
    <li><a href="#entering_user_names_and_passwords_automatically">Entering
      User Names and Passwords Automatically</a></li>
    <li><a href="#turning_password_manager_on_and_off">Turning Password Manager
      On and Off</a></li>
    <li><a href="#viewing_and_managing_stored_passwords">Viewing and Managing
      Stored Passwords</a></li>
    <li><a href="passwords_help.xhtml">Password Settings</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="using_password_manager_to_remember_user_names_and_passwords">Using
  Password Manager to Remember User Names and Passwords</h2>

<p>When Password Manager is active (as it is by default), it gives you an
  opportunity to save user names and passwords on your hard drive that you
  enter while using the Internet.</p>

<p>For example, after you log onto a site from a page that requests a user
  name and password, a dialog box appears asking, <q>Do you want Password
  Manager to remember this logon?</q> When you see this dialog box, you can
  click one of the following buttons:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Yes</strong>: The next time you return to the site you&apos;ll
    see that your user name and password are already filled in. All you have to
    do is click the Login button (or equivalent) to send them to the
    server.</li>
  <li><strong>Never for this site</strong>: Password Manager will not ask in
    the future if you want to save your user name and password for that
    site.</li>
  <li><strong>No</strong>: Password Manager won&apos;t remember the user name
    and password, but will ask again the next time you visit the site.</li>
</ul>

<p>Similarly, when you log onto an email account or an FTP site, or perform any
  other action that requires the browser itself to display a special dialog box
  for your login information, you can select this option in the dialog box:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Use Password Manager to remember these values</strong></li>
</ul>

<p>The next time you check your email or perform other tasks that require a
  password only, the password will be submitted directly without any further
  action on your part. For tasks that require you to enter both a user name and
  password, you need to click a Login button or equivalent after Password
  Manager fills in the information.</p>

<p>Password Manager saves your user names and passwords on your own computer in
  a file that&apos;s difficult, but not impossible, for an intruder to read.
  See <a href="#encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Encrypting Stored
  Sensitive Information</a> for information on protecting your stored user
  names and passwords with encryption technology.</p>

<p>If the Password Manager dialog box described above does not appear when you
  click Submit after typing your user name and password, Password Manager may
  be turned off or the site may disallow its use.</p>

<p>To check whether Password Manager is currently active, see
  <a href="#turning_password_manager_on_and_off">Turning Password Manager On
  and Off</a>.</p>

<p>[<a href="#using_the_password_manager">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="entering_user_names_and_passwords_automatically">Entering User Names
  and Passwords Automatically</h2>

<p>There are two different ways that Password Manager can fill in user names
  and passwords on your behalf:</p>

<ul>
  <li>You use Password Manager to remember your user name and password for a
    site (using the three-button dialog box described in
    <a href=
    "#using_password_manager_to_remember_user_names_and_passwords">Using
    Password Manager to Remember User Names and Passwords</a>).

    <p>The next time you visit the site, Password Manager automatically fills
      in your user name and password on the site&apos;s log in page. You can
      then click the Login button, or equivalent, to send the information to
      the server.</p>
  </li>
  <li>You use Password Manager to remember your user name and password for an
    email account, an FTP site, or in any other situation where you type login
    information in a dialog box that displays a checkbox labeled <q>Use
    Password Manager to remember these values</q>.

    <p>In most cases, the next time you attempt to access that server, Password
      Manager automatically fills in your user name and password in the same
      dialog box. You can then click OK to send the information to the
      server.</p>

    <p>In some cases, such as when you open your email account,
      &brandShortName; needs to send only the password to the server, and does
      so immediately without displaying the dialog box or requiring any further
      action on your part.</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>[<a href="#using_the_password_manager">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="turning_password_manager_on_and_off">Turning Password Manager On and
  Off</h2>

<p>Password Manager is on by default. To turn it off:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Passwords. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>In the Password Manager section, deselect <q>Remember passwords</q>
    to turn Password Manager off.</li>
</ol>

<p>To turn Password Manager on, follow steps 1 and 2 above, but select the
  checkbox in step 3 rather than deselecting it.</p>

<p>[<a href="#using_the_password_manager">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="viewing_and_managing_stored_passwords">Viewing and Managing Stored
  Passwords</h2>

<p>To see the user names and passwords you have stored and to display a list of
  sites from which logon information never is saved:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Open the Tools menu, choose Password Manager, and then choose Manage
    Stored Passwords from the submenu. You see the Password Manager window with
    the Passwords Saved tab opened.
    <ul>
      <li>To see your saved passwords, click Show Passwords and confirm your
        choice.</li>
      <li>To hide your passwords, click Hide Passwords.</li>
      <li>To remove an entry from the list, click it and then click Remove. The
        next time you visit the site, you will need to enter your user name
        and password again, since Password Manager will no longer have the
        information.</li>
    </ul>
    Click the Passwords Never Saved tab to see a list of the sites for which
    you instructed Password Manager never to store user names and passwords. To
    remove a site from this list, click it and then click Remove. The next
    time you log into the site, you can use the stored user name and
    password (if available) or indicate that you want Password Manager to save
    the information for that site.</li>
</ul>

<p>[<a href="#using_the_password_manager">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h1 id="encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Encrypting Stored Sensitive
  Information</h1>

<p>If you use Password Manager to save passwords, then this sensitive
  information is stored on your computer in a file that&apos;s difficult, but
  not impossible, for an intruder to read.</p>

<p>For example, if your computer is in an area where unauthorized people have
  access to it, it&apos;s possible for a determined person to read the file
  containing your sensitive information.</p>

<p>For a greater degree of security, you may want to protect the file with
  encryption. Encryption makes it much harder for an unauthorized person to
  view your stored sensitive information.</p>

<p>Your decision about whether to use encryption for stored sensitive data is a
  tradeoff between improved security and convenience.</p>

<p>If you use encryption, you will need to enter a master password
  periodically, which can be inconvenient. If you don&apos;t, it may be easier
  for a stranger who has access to your computer to steal your passwords.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#turning_encryption_on_and_off">Turning Encryption On and
      Off</a></li>
    <li><a href="#setting_a_master_password">Setting a Master Password</a></li>
    <li><a href="#changing_your_master_password">Changing Your Master
      Password</a></li>
    <li><a href="#logging_out_of_your_master_password">Logging Out of Your
      Master Password</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what_to_do_if_you_forget_your_master_password">What to Do If
      You Forget Your Master Password</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="turning_encryption_on_and_off">Turning Encryption On and Off</h2>

<p>To turn on encryption for your stored sensitive information:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Passwords. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>In the Encrypting versus Obscuring section, select <q>Use encryption
    when storing sensitive data</q>.</li> 
  <li>Click OK. If you haven&apos;t previously set a master password, a new
    dialog box appears and leads you through the process of setting it.</li>
</ol>

<p>To turn encryption off, deselect <q>Use encryption when storing sensitive
  data</q>.</p>

<p>You must supply your master password when you turn encryption on or off.</p>

<p>[<a href="#encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="setting_a_master_password">Setting a Master Password</h2>

<p>If you choose to encrypt your stored sensitive information, you&apos;ll need
  a master password. With encryption selected, you&apos;ll be asked for your
  master password at least once during a &brandShortName; session in which you
  access any of your stored sensitive information.</p>

<p>If you choose encryption, but don&apos;t already have a master password,
  you&apos;ll be prompted to create one the first time you try to save or
  retrieve your sensitive information.</p>

<p>If your master password has not previously been set, you can set at this
  time:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Master Passwords. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>In the Change Master Password section, click Change Password to open the
    Change Master Password dialog box.</li>
  <li>Enter your desired master password, and retype it to confirm the
    spelling.</li>
  <li>Click OK.</li>
</ol>

<p>Make sure your new password is difficult to guess. For some suggestions on
  how to improve password security, see 
  <a href="passwords_help.xhtml#choosing_a_good_password">Choosing a Good
  Password</a>.</p>

<p>[<a href="#encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="changing_your_master_password">Changing Your Master Password</h2>

<p>To change your master password:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li> 
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Master Passwords. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>In the Change Master Password section, click Change Password to open the
    Change Master Password dialog box.</li>
  <li>Enter your current master password.</li>
  <li>Enter your new master password, and retype it to confirm the
    spelling.</li>
  <li>Click OK.</li>
</ol>

<p>Make sure your new password is difficult to guess. For some guidelines, see
  <a href="passwords_help.xhtml#choosing_a_good_password">Choosing a Good
  Password</a>.</p>

<p>[<a href="#encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="logging_out_of_your_master_password">Logging Out of Your Master
  Password</h2>

<p>Normally, you are asked for your master password once during each
  &brandShortName; session during which you access any of your stored sensitive
  information.</p>

<p>It&apos;s also possible to require that your master password be requested
  each time it is needed, or after a certain amount of time has passed. For
  details, see <a href="passwords_help.xhtml#master_password_timeout">Master
  Password Timeout</a>.</p>

<p>You can log out of your master password so that it must be entered again
  before any sensitive information can be stored or retrieved. This is useful
  if you are going to leave your computer unattended for a period of time.</p>

<p>To log out of your master password:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the Tools menu and choose Password Manager.</li>
  <li>Select Log Out from the submenu.</li>
</ol>

<p>[<a href="#encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h2 id="what_to_do_if_you_forget_your_master_password">What to Do If You Forget
  Your Master Password</h2>

<p>If you forget your master password and you have chosen to encrypt sensitive
  data (see <a href="#encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Encrypting
  Stored Sensitive Information</a>), you won&apos;t be able to access any of
  the stored password it protects (assuming you have turned on encryption).
  Your master password is your most important password. Make sure you remember
  it or record it in a safe place.</p>

<p>As a last resort, it&apos;s possible to reset your master password if you
  are sure you can&apos;t remember it. However, resetting your master password
  permanently erases all the web and email passwords, saved on your behalf by
  Password Manager. You will also lose all your personal certificates
  associated with the
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#software_security_device">Software Security
  Device</a>.</p>

<p>Before taking this drastic step, read
  <a href="passwords_help.xhtml#reset_master_password">Reset Master
  Password</a>.</p>

<p>If you are sure you can&apos;t remember or retrieve your master password,
  follow these instructions to reset it:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Master Passwords. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>Click Reset Master Password.</li>
  <li>In the Reset Master Password dialog box, click Reset.</li>
</ol>

<p>[<a href="#encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Return to beginning of
  section</a>]</p>

<h1 id="managing_images">Managing Images</h1>

<p>If you wish, you can choose not to download any images when you browse the
  web. This greatly restricts what you can view online, but may be helpful if
  you have a slow connection and wish to shorten the time it takes web pages to
  load.</p>

<p>You can also control how frequently animated images repeat their animation,
  or turn off animation completely.</p>

<p>The next section describes how to control these image settings. The default
  settings allow all images to be accepted and allow them to repeat their
  animation.</p>

<h2 id="images">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Images</h2>

<p>This section describes how to set preferences for images. To view the
  preference settings for images:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Images. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
</ol>

<h3 id="image_acceptance_policy">Image Acceptance Policy</h3>

<p>Image Acceptance preferences allow you to control whether or under what
  conditions the &brandShortName; browser should display images:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Do not load any images</strong>: Select this option if you do not
    want the &brandShortName; browser to display images.</li>
  <li><strong>Accept images that come from the originating server
    only</strong>: Select this option if you do not want to load images from
    third-party sites.</li>
  <li><strong>Accept all images</strong>: Select this option if you want to
    display all images. (This option is selected by default.)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Animated images should loop</h3>

<p>These settings control how many times animated images repeat their
  animation:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>As many times as the image specifies</strong>: Select this if you
    want image animation to repeat as many times as specified within each
    image. (This option is selected by default.)</li>
  <li><strong>Once</strong>: Select this if you want image animation to occur
    once, overriding the number of times specified within each image.</li>
  <li><strong>Never</strong>: Select this if you do not want image
    animation.</li>
</ul>


</body>
</html>
